# Leukemia_GAN
GAN-Augmented Deep Learning for Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia Classification from Microscopic Blood Smear Images

# Abstract
Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia (ALL) is a cancer originating in blood and bone marrow, and is the most common pediatric cancer. Clinical workflow for ALL diagnosis involves microscopic examination of blood smear images by hematologists, a process which is slow, cost-ineffective, and prone to human errors. Use of Artificial Intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) models to classify cancerous images is gaining worldwide momentum to make timely diagnosis accessible, affordable, and efficient. Strict regulations around patient data and limited availability of large datasets to train models restrict the achievement of acceptable prediction accuracy. The datasets are often skewed with more cancer-positive images, making model predictions biased. Our framework uses a Variational Autoencoder Generative Adversarial Network (VAE-GAN) to generate non-cancerous (HEM) synthetic images and balance the dataset to reduce overfitting or accuracy concerns. The framework utilizes pre-trained MobileNetV2, a Convolution Neural Network (CNN) built for a lean compute environment and portability. After hyperparameter tuning and result analysis, a Multi-layer Perceptron (MLP) classifier is added to this CNN. By choosing a lean architecture, augmenting the dataset, selecting an appropriate classifier, and optimizing the flow with hyperparameter tuning, this framework is efficient, transferable, and usable with lean compute resources. For this framework and application, recall is used as the most suitable metric after comparing the results. The model achieved a high recall of 96% despite limitations in the datasets, demonstrating high success in identifying true positive cases of ALL. The framework can be used for other types of cancers and medical image classifications.

